MULTI-CLUSTER KUBERNETES


Team: Adam Kus and Yukoh Shimizu


Description:
This project extends traditional Kubernetes to a multi-cluster environment, providing 
an interface for several different clusters to communicate with and update each other. 
Clusters are separated into regional groups that represent a geographic locality (ex: 
the US region, or the Europe region). Once the multi-cluster extension is running on 
each cluster, a user can input the number of service replicas desired in a region. Any 
cluster can accept an update from a user, making the system very decentralized and easy 
to access. This change is then scheduled to specific clusters in the region, and the 
new global state is propagated throughout the global multi-cluster system. When the 
relevant clusters receive the updated global configuration, they update their deployments 
to reflect the rule input by the user.


Source Code:
The code can be found at https://github.com/adamkus319/cs434-kubernetes 

The code was also integrated into a fork of Kubernetes, which can be found at
https://github.com/adamkus319/kubernetes-multicluster. The messagebus code was added 
to the /cmd/multi-cluster folder.


Production Efforts:
Documentation, setup steps, and a demo video can be found at: 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1dVuCRn0BVAHaYDLTRshJ1kImBhTadHPG?usp=sharing

Additionally, documentation was also integrated into the Kubernetes documentation website. 
The forked repository can be found at: https://github.com/adamkus319/website
The multi-cluster information was added into /content/en/docs/mc_docs. Pictures from the
locally-hosted website can be found in the Google drive link with the other documentation.

The primary way we evaluated our code was thoroughly testing each individual piece before
fitting them togehter to ensure correct behavior. This made assembling the components much
easier, since it allowed us to better isolate whether bugs were coming from the component or
the component's interaction with other software. Additionally, we reviewed sections of each 
other's code when checking for bugs or better implementation methods, which helped lead to
faster solutions.

We also strove to evaluate ourselves in this project by adhering to common SWE principles, such
as keeping it simple. For example, we chose gRPC because even though it took a little longer 
to learn, it provided us simple message and parsing capabilities that would have easily been 
more bloated/complex had we implemented them ourselves. This goes hand-in-hand with extensibility
(something we also kept in mind), which is greatly improved by using tools like gRPC instead of 
providing a custom format that would have to be altered in the future (especially if the code is
being worked on by several people, where a common gRPC interface is easier to understand). 


Analysis + Future Work:
Given more time, there are several things that could be added to the codebase to improve 
functionality and robustness. For example, the scheduling algorithm is simple and will 
load more services to the first clusters within the region’s cluster vector; there is no 
proper load balancing as services are added/removed. Also, there are no options to configure 
the deployment of a new service upon its creation, which would involve a more complex data 
structure to describe the global configuration of the system. Other edge cases (such as 
what if the Docker container for a deployment has a name different from <deployment>:latest?)
are also not covered, as the goal was to get the basic system up and running for 
demonstration. Furthermore, the project should have been programmed in Go instead of C++. 
Programming in Go would have better integrated the additions to the standard Kubernetes 
environment and would have removed the use of Python scripts for accessing the Kubernetes API.

Further work is also needed to implement request forwarding among clusters within a region. 
Upon receiving a request for a service it is not currently running, a cluster should be able 
to forward that request to another cluster in the region that is running that service, acting 
as a proxy. Additionally, the API only currently supports scheduling a number of replicas of
a given service in a given region. A more complex API grammar could be developed for global
configuration updates (for example, having the ability to exclude clusters in a region, or to
specify a specific cluster in a region).

